#summary End user manual for non-developers.
#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy

===System requirements===

  * Java JRE/JDK 1.6.0_10 or newer
  * 256MB free RAM memory
  * 10MB free hard drive space
  * Zip utility to unpack the archive (7-zip, WinZip, Total Commander, etc)

===Running the app===

  * On *Windows* just run the diylc.exe
  * On *Linux/Unix* or *Mac*, open the terminal, change the directory to diylc3 (*cd `<`path to diylc3`>`*) and type *./run.sh*

===User interface===

User interface can be separated into 4 major components:

  # *Canvas* is used as a [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WYSIWYG WYSIWYG] editor for the project.
  # *Toolbox* lists all available components and allows you to pick the one you want to add.
  # *Main menu* offers file operations, such as saving, loading and exporting, clipboard operations, etc.
  # *Status bar*: shows context related information, zoom control, update information and memory consumption.

===Adding components===

This sections explains how to add an existing component to the project. To learn how to develop your own components follow [http://code.google.com/p/diy-layout-creator/wiki/Components this tutorial]. To instantiate a component, follow these steps:

  * Locate the component in the toolbox. Components are categorized into several tabs, so make sure you're looking into the right one.
  * Click on the button that shows the desired component. Note that text in the status bar changes to reflect this action.
  * Click on the desired location on the canvas to create the component.

===Moving components===

The easiest way to move a component across the canvas is to drag it by clicking on it's body and moving the mouse to the desired location. When mouse cursor is over a component, it will change to "hand pointer" and status bar will read name of the component that can be dragged. By default, moving a component may cause other components that are stuck to it to move together with it. Hold CTRL key to prevent that.

===Control points===

A component may have one or more control points. Control points have dual purpose:

  * Allows changing component placement or appearance by dragging it's control point on the canvas. For instance, drag one end point of the resistor. To be able to drag a control point, the component must be selected. That makes it easier to "un-stick" two component that have overlapping control points and to have control over points that are dragged. This also works with multiple selection. When two or more components have their components stuck to each other, selecting all of them will allow you to drag their control points at the same time. Note that status bar lists all the components that will be affected by the drag&drop operation.
  * Allows the component to "stick" to other components. Consider the following example: two resistors are joined with overlapping control points. Moving one of the resistors will cause the overlapping control point of the other to move together and keep the two resistors connected. Hold CTRL key to prevent that.

===Editing components===

  * Double click on a component opens the Component Editor - dialog that lists all editable properties of the selected component(s).
  * Checking the "Default" checkbox on the right side will make the value for that property default. In other words, all the components created after that will inherit that value.

===Grouping components together===

Component groups behave similar to object groups Corel Draw. The idea is to keep two or more components together and move/edit/delete them at the same time. To group components, select them and press Ctrl+G (or select "Group Selection" from the menu). Double click on one of the grouped components will open the editor with all the mutual properties of selected components and allow editing them at the same time.
Note that while the components are grouped, you can't edit drag their individual control points.
To un-group the components, select them and press Ctrl+U (or select "Ungroup Selection" from the menu).

===Using the status bar===

Status bar contains three different features:

  * *Information bar* shows context related information and guidance through the app.
  * *Selection size* shows the dimensions of the minimal bounding rectangle that contains all the selected components. It takes default size units (in or cm) into account.
  * *Zoom control* allows you to zoom in or out.
  * *Auto-update* notification. When the bulb is on, there are updates available. Click on it for more information.
  * *Memory bar* is the blue-ish icon on the right side that shows the amount of memory occupied by the application. Move the mouse over it to see more details or click on it to try to cleanup as much memory as possible. Color will turn red when memory consumption is running high.

===Presets===

Preset is a file that contains default application settings and individual component configuration. File format is very simple to make it easier for users to edit the existing presets or make their own.
TODO: add more details here